# Release Checklist



<table><thead><tr><th width="96">Sl.No.</th><th width="473">Checklist</th><th width="158">Yes/No/Partially</th><th width="158">Reference Link</th><th width="176">Owner</th><th width="214">Reviewer</th><th width="429">Remarks</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Upgrade is completed for all the core services that are part of the release.</td><td>Yes</td><td>NA</td><td>Shashwat Mishra</td><td></td><td>Code is frozen by 14 March 2024</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Test cases are documented by the QA team and test results are updated in the test cases sheet.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Q5dNXDnt5WrgOOOS1MMEnoyi7Jo0s2kq9hLnSnGK5S4/edit?usp=sharing">Test Cases</a></td><td>Mustakim</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>The incremental demo of the features showcased during tech council meetings and feedback incorporated.</td><td>Yes</td><td>NA</td><td>Shashwat Mishra</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>QA signoff is completed by the QA team and communicated to the platform team. </td><td>Yes</td><td>NA</td><td></td><td></td><td><p>QA signoff was completed.<br>Sign-off dates</p><p>6th Feb 2023</p></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>API Technical documents are updated for the release along with the configuration documents. </td><td>Yes</td><td>NA</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>Promotion to new environment  testing from the QA team is completed.</td><td>Yes</td><td>NA</td><td>Shraddha Solkar</td><td><p>Aniket Talele</p><p>Shashwat Mishra</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>API Automation scripts are updated for new APIs or changes to any existing APIs for the release. API automation regression is completed on UAT, the automation test results are analyzed and necessary actions are taken to fix the failure cases. Publish the list of failure use cases with a reason for failure and the resolution taken to fix these failures for the release.</td><td>No</td><td>NA</td><td>Shraddha Solkar</td><td></td><td>Not picked up in this release due to lack of resources. We do not have QA resource who can write automation scripts.</td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>The API backward compatibility testing is completed.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Q5dNXDnt5WrgOOOS1MMEnoyi7Jo0s2kq9hLnSnGK5S4/edit?usp=sharing">Test Cases</a></td><td>Shraddha Solkar</td><td><p>Aniket Talele </p><p>Shashwat Mishra</p></td><td>Core modules were tested against urban 2.8 modules and the bugs which were found have been addressed.</td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>The communication is shared with the platform team for regression by the QA team.</td><td>Yes</td><td>NA</td><td>Shraddha Solkar</td><td><p>Aniket Talele </p><p>Shashwat Mishra</p></td><td>UAT sign-off was completed on 24th March 2023</td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>The GIT tags and releases are created for the code changes for the release.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://github.com/egovernments/Digit-Core/releases/tag/DIGIT-2.9-LTS">DIGIT Core 2.9 Release</a></td><td>Shashwat Mishra</td><td>Aniket Talele</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>Verify whether the Release notes are updated</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://core.digit.org/v/2.9-lts/platform/releases/digit-2.9-lts">Release Notes</a></td><td><p>Shashwat Mishra</p><p>Anjoo Narayan</p></td><td>Aniket Talele</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>Verify whether all MDMS, Configs, InfraOps configs updated.</td><td>Yes</td><td>NA</td><td>Shraddha Solkar</td><td>Shashwat Mishra</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>Verify whether all docs will be Published to <a href="https://core.digit.org/">Introducing DIGIT Platform</a> by the Technical Writer as part of the release.</td><td>Yes</td><td>NA</td><td>Shashwat Mishra</td><td>Anjoo Narayan</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>14</td><td>Verify whether all test cases are up to date and updated along with necessary permissions to view the test cases sheet. The test cases sheet is verified by the Test Lead.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Q5dNXDnt5WrgOOOS1MMEnoyi7Jo0s2kq9hLnSnGK5S4/edit?usp=sharing">Test Cases</a></td><td>Shraddha Solkar</td><td><p>Aniket Talele </p><p>Shashwat Mishra</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>15</td><td>Verify whether all the localisation data was updated in Release Kits.</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://github.com/egovernments/releasekit/tree/master/localisation/core_2.9">Localization</a></td><td>Shraddha Solkar</td><td>Shashwat Mishra</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>16</td><td>Verify whether the platform release notes and user guides are updated and published</td><td>Yes</td><td><a href="https://core.digit.org/v/2.9-lts/platform/releases/digit-2.9-lts">Release Notes</a></td><td>Platform team</td><td><p>Aniket Talele </p><p>Shashwat Mishra</p></td><td>Release notes and user guides are published in gitbook.</td></tr><tr><td>17</td><td>The Demo of technical enhancements is done by the platform team as part of the tech council meetings.</td><td>Yes</td><td>NA</td><td>Platform team</td><td><p>Ghanshyam Rawat Aniket Talele </p><p>Shashwat Mishra</p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>18</td><td>Architect SignOff and Technical Quality Report</td><td>Yes</td><td>NA</td><td>Ghanshyam Rawat Aniket Talele</td><td></td><td>Sign off is given.</td></tr><tr><td>19</td><td>The release communication along with all the release artefacts are shared by the Platform team.</td><td>Inprogress</td><td>NA</td><td>Shashwat Mishra</td><td>Aniket Talele</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
